Design and background: The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope,the raw data captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

Raw data: The raw data was divided into two separate datasets, for the training and the test groups. Each record in the dataset included triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration, triaxial angular velocity from the gyroscope, a 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables, its activity label, and an identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

Processed data: The training and the test data sets were combined into one large datasets. Activity labels and subject identifiers for the two datasets were combined together and then combined with the large sets. Each column was labeled with the appropriate name. Only the mean and the standard deviation measurements were retained. The averages of the measurements for each subject and activity were extracted and provided as the final and tidy data set.
